In this section we'll take a closer look at the hardware present on the Simultaneous RFID Reader 3.3V.

### M7E Nano

The M7E Nano is a Ultra-High Frequency (UHF) RFID reader capable of reading multiple tags simultaneously at up to 150 tags per second.



The module can also write data quickly to RFID tags with 96-bit EPC (80msec typical write time). The M7E Nano boasts adjustable read and write RF power levels from 0dBm to 27dBm in 0.01dBm steps and can read tags from several feet away (up to 16 feet in our testing!) with the proper antenna, conditions and device settings.

The M7E-NANO works with common, low-cost, passive, Gen2 UHF tags available from a variety of online vendors in a variety of shapes and sizes. We offer two types of UHF tags, ones [with adhesive](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/20228) backing and [ultra-small](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/16464) ones. Both have 64 bytes of user writable memory.

### Communication Interfaces

The board has two options for interacting with the M7E Nano's serial interface: USB-C and a plated through-hole (PTH) header. The PTH header can connect to a microcontroller or serial converter (running at <b>3.3V</b> logic or properly level shifted). The selection switch on the board labeled <b>UART</b> allows users to choose between the two serial interface options. The board also breaks out several of the M7E Nano's GPIO pins and the Enable pin.



#### USB-C

The USB-C connector on the board allows for quick use of the M7E Nano with just a USB-C cable. The board uses a CH340C USB-to-Serial adapter to translate between the M7E's UART and the USB-C connection. 

<div class="alert alert-warning">
    <b>Heads Up!</b> With RF power level set to 27dBm the board can draw over <b>700mA (3.6W @ 5V)</b>. Most USB ports on computers only source up to ~500mA so the board may start to brown out at power settings over 22dBm when powered from a USB port. Users who wish to set the over 22dBm should make sure their power source (either from USB-C via a power adapter or through a regulated <b>5V</b> supply to the VIN PTH pin) can source enough current to power the board. We recommend a power adapter like <a href="https://www.sparkfun.com/products/15448">this</a>.
</div>

#### Through-Hole Serial Connection

The board includes a PTH header for serial communication with a 3.3V microcontroller or other device. The header matches the pinout for our [Serial Breakouts](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/15096) for easy connection to those devices.

#### Serial Selection Switch

The two-way switch on the board labled <b>UART</b> allows the user to toggle between the two serial interfaces: USB-C (<b>USB</b>) and the Serial Header (<b>SER</b>).

#### Enable and GPIO PTHs

The M7E uses an internal DC to DC converter to provide itself with power. When the <b>EN</b> (enable) pin is pulled low the DC/DC converter is turned off and the module does a hard reset. <b>EN</b> can be left unconnected for normal operation. 

!!! warning
    <b>Note:</b> The <b>3.3V</b> pin on this header is not intended as a power source. It connects to the <b>V_OUT</b> pin on the M7E Nano which can only supply <b>5mA</b>. It is best used as a voltage reference.


### Power LED

The lone LED on the board indicates device power status. Users can disable this LED by severing the <b>PWR</b> jumper. The Power LED receives voltage from the <b>VOUT</b> pin on the M7E Nano. Driving the <b>EN</b> pin low disables <b>VOUT</b> and can be used to turn this LED off.



### Solder Jumpers

The board has three solder jumpers labeled: <b>PWR</b>, <b>VIN</b>, and <b>SHLD</b>. The table below outlines their label, function, default state, and any notes regarding their use.

<table class="table table-striped table-bordered table-hover">
    <tr>
        <th>Label</th>
        <th>Default State</th>
        <th>Function</th>
        <th>Notes</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>PWR</td>
        <td>CLOSED</td>
        <td>Completes Power LED circuit.</td>
        <td>Open to disable Power LED.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>VIN</td>
        <td>CLOSED</td>
        <td>Nets V_USB to VIN.</td>
        <td>Open to isolate V_USB from VIN.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>SHLD</td>
        <td>CLOSED</td>
        <td>Ties USB Shield pin to PCB ground plane.</td>
        <td>Open to isolate the USB Shield pin from the rest of the board.</td>
    </tr>
</table>

### Ground Plane Heatsink

The board has a large ground plane heatsink on the bottom to help dissipate heat generated by the module.


The exposed copper pour allows the connection to a heatsink such as a chassis or block of metal if needed.

### Antenna Options

The Nano M7E is a powerful transmitter capable of outputting up to 27dBm! That's a lot. The board comes with a PCB trace antenna and a u.FL connector for an external antenna connection.


The trace antenna is enabled by default. Adjust the <b>RF</b> resistor to switch the antenna signal to the u.FL connector to use an external antenna. Refer to the [Using an External Antenna]() section of this guide for more information on this assembly step.

### Board Dimensions

The board measures 2.40" x 1.40" (60.96mm x 35.56mm) and has four mounting holes that fit a [4-40](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/10453) screw.